# CryptoClustering
Module 19 Assignment from Columbia University Data Analytics Bootcamp

Using Python and unsupervised learning to predict if cryptocurrencies are affected by 24-hour or 7-day price changes.

### Files
The jupyter notebook imports data from a CSV file (crypto_market_data.csv) into a Pandas DataFrame. 

### Data Preparation
Used the StandardScaler() module from scikit-learn to normalize the data from the CSV file.
Created a DataFrame with the scaled data.
Found the Best Value for k using the Original Scaled DataFrame.
Clustered Cryptocurrencies with K-means.
Initialized the K-means model with the best value for k.
Fit the K-means model using the original scaled DataFrame.
Predicted the clusters to group the cryptocurrencies using the original scaled DataFrame.
Created a copy of the original data and add a new column with the predicted clusters.
Created a scatter plot using hvPlot.
Optimized Clusters with Principal Component Analysis.
Found the Best Value for k using the PCA Data.
Clustered Cryptocurrencies with K-means using the PCA Data
Initialized the K-means model with the best value for k.
Fit the K-means model using the PCA data.
Predicted the clusters to group the cryptocurrencies using the PCA data.
Created a copy of the DataFrame with the PCA data and add a new column to store the predicted clusters.
Created a scatter plot using hvPlot.

### References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
